Because it is part of the physical universe, love has to be lawful. Like the rest of the world, it is governed and described by principles we can discover but cannot change.Cognitive psychology bristled with boxes and arrows linking perception to action and had nothing to say about the unthinking center of self that people most cherish.The student of love still confronts a venerable relationship between certainty and utility in matters of the heart: only a few things worth knowing about love can be proven, and just a few things amenable to proof are worth knowing at all.To slip between the twin dangers of empty reductionism and baseless credulity, one must balance a respect for proof with a fondness for the unproven and the unprovable. Common sense must combine in equal measure imaginative flight and an aversion to orthodoxy.The first blow to the clockwork universe came from Albert Einstein. His relativity theory proposed that the flow of time depends on where you are, and that different observers may not agree even about the chronological order of the events they witness. A few years later, Kurt Gödel demonstrated that any mathematical system contains, like the gleaming and inaccessible jewels of a dragon’s lair, true theorems that can never be proven. Between Einstein and Gödel came Werner Heisenberg and his uncertainty principle. Heisenberg showed that the more precisely one determines the position of an atomic particle, the less one can know about its speed.“We should take care not to make the intellect our god; it has, of course, powerful muscles, but no personality. It cannot lead; it can only serve.”A person cannot direct his emotional life in the way he bids his motor system to reach for a cup. He cannot will himself to want the right thing, or to love the right person, or to be happy after a disappointment, or even to be happy in happy times. People lack this capacity not through a deficiency of discipline but because the jurisdiction of will is limited to the latest brain and to those functions within its purview. Emotional life can be influenced, but it cannot be commanded.Beyond the variegated sensations and the helpful motivations, science has discovered emotionality’s deeper purpose: the timeworn mechanisms of emotion allow two human beings to receive the contents of each other’s minds. EmotionEmotional expressions on the face of a rhesus monkey. (From Chevalier-Skolnikoff, 1973, in Darwin and Facial Expression: A Century of Research in Review, edited by P. Ekman. Reprinted with permission of the Academic Press.)Human beings, as tool-making animals, are prone to associate importance with durability. The columns of the Parthenon or the massive stone blocks of looming pyramids easily elicit our wonder and awe. The momentousness of emotions in human lives stands in befuddling contrast to their impossible brevity.“Dream delivers us to dream, and there is no end to illusion. Life is a train of moods like a string of beads, and, as we pass through them, they prove to be many-colored lenses which paint the world their own hue. . . . Temperament is the iron wire on which the beads are strung.”To evaluate the impact of subtler bonding derangements, a group of researchers devised an ingenious way to make healthy monkeys into poor mothers. They place monkey mother and infant in an environment where food is not always readily available. Sometimes the mother has easy access to nutrients; at other times she must search diligently to find enough to feed herself and her baby. The unpredictability of that circumstance preys on the mother’s mind and erodes her parental attentiveness.Despite their incomprehension, subjects nevertheless steadily honed their forecasting abilities. After just fifty trials, the average subject was right 70 percent of the time. Even though subjects didn’t understand what they were doing or why it worked, they were still able to do it. They gradually developed a feel for the situation, and intuitively grasped the essence of a complex problem that their logical brains could not crack.