When I’m invited to a meeting, I always ask myself, “Is this a listening exercise or a facilitating exercise?” The distinction is perhaps utterly semantic or philosophical. With listening, I know that the speaker knows the information I need and that I need to provide gentle nudges. With facilitating, I know I’ll need to play a more active role in engaging participants. Breaking the rules of listening means transitioning the mindset from gentle nudges to active engagement.we started working on the project before ever meeting the client. Not days early. But weeks early. Months early. We read their books. We downloaded their white papers and streamed their speeches. We learned their business. But more importantly, we learned their vocabulary. And something interesting happened. We walked into the “kickoff meetings” with their words.Short circuits: Behaviors that prevent speakers from elaborating Closed doors: Behaviors that discourage speakers from contributing Embattled egos: Behaviors that redirect attention to the listener“Is there anything I didn’t ask about that you think I should have?”Closed-door behaviors discourage speakers from elaborating. Listeners, through what they say or through body language, imply that they’re not interested in what the speaker has to say.They have anxiety about not understanding the decision. They realize they do not understand the decision, so they lash out to protect themselves, to prevent others from realizing they do not understand. They have anxiety about the decision itself. For one reason or another, they don’t like the decision made (whether they understand it or not), and they lash out to protect themselves.Conflict stemming from method therefore comes from a disagreement about which criteria are the most important to drive the decision.design is as much about how we make our decisions as it is about the decisions themselves.Do you and I just disagree about design direction, or is there something more going on?Collaboration requires strong leadership and facilitation, someone to make decisions, but not in a dictatorial fashion. Collaboration requires established success criteria to allow participants to validate their ideas. Collaboration must be conducted in a safe space where all participants are allowed to disagree, but where established rules prevent consensus from beating out quality.They immediately set expectations about their ability to deliver on tasks, clarifying the scope or desired output of the assignment.Clarity and Definition: Expressing and articulating clearly Accountability and Ownership: Understanding and taking responsibility Awareness and Respect: Empathizing with your colleagues Openness and Honesty: Stating and accepting the truthThe Lead Collaboration doesn’t work when there is no accountability or ownership. This includes someone who is ultimately accountable for the two dimensions of a project: quality and movement. (Remember those from Chapter 4?) A project lead is ultimately accountable for organizing the project structure and team members so they reach project goals. The lead is also responsible for ensuring that project stakeholders are getting what they need and that the designed product is good.An open person is willing to admit that he doesn’t understand (clarity), he can’t live up to expectations (accountability), or he doesn’t know what’s happening (awareness).Honesty is different from straight-up truthfulness because it comes with a dose of wisdom and moderation. The truth shouldn’t be concealed; it should be packaged to make it actionable, meaningful, practical, and hearable. Honesty isn’t saying anything and everything that enters one’s mind. Instead, it’s conveying feedback, direction, correction, or any other contrary position with respect and with a desire to help colleagues grow.