The burden imposed on working memory in the form of information that must be held plus information that must be processed is referred to as cognitive load.For example, one multimedia exercise asks technicians to play a Jeopardy® game in which they recall facts about a new software system in response to clues. A better alternative exercise gives an equipment failure scenario and asks technicians to select a troubleshooting action based on facts about a new software system. The Jeopardy game exercise might be perceived as fun, but it risks storing facts in memory without a job context.Multimedia presentations can encourage learners to engage in active learning by mentally representing the material in words and in pictures and by mentally making connections between the pictorial and verbal representations.expertise reversal effect—the idea that instructional supports that help low-knowledge learners may not help (and may even hurt) high-knowledge learners.Also consistent with cognitive theory, researchers have found that the modality effect is stronger for less-skilled learners than for more-skilled learners (Seufert, Schutze, & Brunken, 2009).Learners often bypass verbal descriptions in favor of examples.A modeling example is a worked example in which a human provides a demonstration of how to complete a task, usually accompanied by commentary.We review two types of modeled examples: (1) cognitive models, which focus on skills such as how to set up an Excel spreadsheet and (2) interpersonal skills models, which focus on social skills such as how to sell a new product.Sweller (2004) proposed a “Borrowing and Reorganizing Principle” of human learning. He suggests that the main path to building new knowledge in long-term memory is through imitating others—in other words to borrow knowledge that others have acquired and to reorganize it into workable knowledge in long-term memory. Worked examples offer an especially efficient opportunity to borrow knowledge from others.Traditional training plans present some guidelines or steps along with one or two examples followed by many practice exercises. However, research shows that learning is more efficient with a greater initial reliance on worked examples in place of some practice exercises. While studying an example (in contrast to solving a problem), working memory is relatively free to borrow and reorganize new knowledge.A potential problem with worked examples is that many learners either ignore them altogether or review them in a very shallow manner. Chi and others (1989) found that better learners reviewed worked examples by explaining to themselves the principles reflected in the examples.The shallow processor more or less repeats the content of the example, in contrast to the deeper processor, who focuses on the principles being illustrated.The goal of any self-explanation question is two-fold. First, it discourages bypassing the worked example because an overt response is required. Second, by asking learners to identify the rationale that underlies each step, they are encouraged to process that step in a meaningful way.The research team derived three conditions to maximize the benefits of active observing. First, learners should solve problems as they observe the video; second, they should do so in pairs rather than working alone; and third, best learning stems from video models using high ability tutees who ask the tutor deeper level questions than lower ability tutees do.First, adding explanations can be effective when conceptual understanding is the goal rather than problem solving performance. Second, explanations are most helpful when there are no self-explanation questions requiring a learner response. Learners may invest less effort in a self-explanation question if an instructional explanation is available. Finally, explanations seem especially effective with mathematical content, perhaps because many learners are intimidated by mathematics.But the group that read both the fire and the fortress stories had much better success. By studying two examples from different contexts that reflect the same principle, learners were able to abstract the underlying principle that connected them.that practice is a necessary but not sufficient condition to reach high levels of competence. What factors differentiate practice that leads to growth of expertise from practice that does not?Ericsson (2006) refers to practice that builds expertise as deliberate practice. He describes deliberate practice as tasks presented to performers that “are initially outside their current realm of reliable performance, yet can be mastered within hours of practice by concentrating on critical aspects and by gradually refining performance through repetitions after feedback” (p. 692). Deliberate practice involves five basic elements: (1) effortful exertion to improve performance, (2) intrinsic motivation to engage in the task, (3) carefully tailored practice tasks that focus on areas of weakness, (4) feedback that provides knowledge of results, and (5) continued repetition over a number of years (Kellogg & Whiteford, 2009).Proficiency leveled off only after the speed of the operator exceeded the physical limitations of the equipment.power law of practice.Avoid feedback such as “Well Done!” that draws attention to the ego and away from the learning. Likewise, avoid normative feedback such as grades that encourage learners to compare themselves with others. Emphasize progress feedback in which attention is focused on improvement over time.By mixing together problems that must be discriminated in order to identify the most appropriate solution, learners receive much more discrimination practice.Learners like learner control! To the extent that student appeal is a major goal of your instructional projects, learner control is a definite satisfier. Given the high levels of control inherent on the Internet, it is likely that learners will expect the same kind of freedom in e-learning courses.We have two lines of evidence indicating that, in fact, most learners are not good at self-assessment: calibration accuracy and student lesson ratings.The correlation between your confidence estimate and your actual performance is called calibration. Had you guessed 55 percent, your calibration would have been perfect.Metacognition is the mind’s operating system. In short, metacognition supports mental self-awareness and self-regulation.Because planning and monitoring require working memory capacity, it is likely that low prior knowledge learners did not have sufficient mental resource for self-regulatory activities. The research team recommends adding guidance to hypermedia environments that will be accessed by novice learners.Mayer (2008) notes that successful programs (1) focus on a few well-defined skills, (2) contextualize those skills within authentic tasks, and (3) incorporate social learning strategies, including instructor modeling and student collaboration.Principle 1: Focus on job-specific cognitive and metacognitive skills Principle 2: Consider a whole-task course design Principle 3: Make thinking processes explicit Principle 4: Define job-specific thinking processesMore often, consumers and designers look at the features rather than the outcomes of an e-learning course to assess its effectiveness.