perception and reperception of structures in response to esthetic pressures.More than anything, such universal but famously elusive essences as simplicity, consistency, symmetry, balance, and elegance seemed to be the driving forces behind an ability to make sense of patterns.That would be it! But what would that grand success teach us
about human perception, pattern recognition, theory formation, theory revision, and esthetics? Nothing - nothing at all.
Those people who are interested in results will begin with a standard technology, not even questioning it at all, and then build a big system that solves many complex problems and impresses a lot of people. Those people who are interested in the more abstract questions about the nature of intelligence and creativity will spend a lot of time seeking the essence of those phenomena and then trying to model that essence with maximal fidelity.is a perceptual process that begins in a pure bottom-up manner but that is gradually invaded by increasing amounts of top-down influence.Another term for "bottom-up" is thus "data-driven"; "top-down" corresponds to "theory-driven".
In any case, the core of the process is analogy-making, but a somewhat peculiar variety of analogy-making, in that one isn't exactly sure of the identity or the edges of the structures between which analogies are being made.In mathematics, pattern sensitivity acts like an abstract sense of smell, and informs all of the hardest decisions.
Much like the mathematical concepts just cited, our ordinary concepts are also structured in a sphere-like manner, with the most primary examples forming the core and with less typical examples forming the outer layers. Such sphericity imbues any concept with an implicit sense of what its stronger and weaker instances are.(1) the inseparability of perception and high-level cognition, leading to the idea of a perceptual architecture being at the heart of cognition;
(2) the fruits of high-level perception being easily reconfigurable multi-level cognitive representations held loosely together by bonds of different types and different strengths;
(3) the idea of subcognitive pressures- namely, that the more "important" a concept or a representation is, the greater an influence it should be allowed to exert, in a probabilistic sense, on the direction of the processing;
(4) the commingling of many pressures, both context-dependent and context-independent, leading to a nondeterministic parallel architecture in which bottom-up and top-down processing coexist gracefully;
(5) the simultaneous feeling-out of many potential pathways at differential rates governed by quickly-made estimates of degree of promise;
(6) the centrality of the making of analogies and variations on a theme in high-level cognition;
(7) the possession, by cognitive representations, of deeper and shallower aspects, with the former remaining relatively immune to contextual pressures, and the latter being more likely to yield under pressure (to "slip");
(8) the crucial role played by the inner structure of concepts and conceptual neighborhoods in all these goals, particularly context-dependent conceptual overlap and proximity, and context-independent conceptual depth.
