The idea that moves the masses today is called “materialism,” but what precisely characterizes the present time is dematerialization. An example: correspondence grows, the number of letters increases, the amount of paper written on and material used up swells, then the telephone call relieves the strain. Then comes further growth of the communications network and increase in the volume of communications; then radio eases the burden. The amount of material used is decreasing, we are dematerializing, cumbersome masses of material are being supplanted by released energies. Thatattempts have been made to design visually (to distinguish from aesthetically) improved alphabets. but redesigning will rest in just another typeface unless the design is primarily guided by optics as well as by a revision of spelling. this, in turn, reveals the need for a clearer relation of writing-printing to the spoken word, a reorganization of the alphabetic sound-symbols, the creation of new symbols. the type designer is not usually a language reformer, but a systematic approach will inevitably carry him to a point where he will ask for nothing less than a complete overhaul of communication with visual sound.To describe the problem is part of the solution. This implies: not to make creative decisions as prompted by feeling but by intellectual criteria. The more exact and complete these criteria are, the more creative the work becomes. The creative process is to be reduced to an act of selection. Designing means: to pick out determining elements and combine them. Seen in these terms, designing calls for method.Le Corbusier, the great and influential architect and theorist, commented: “To be modern is not a fashion, it is a state. It is necessary to understand history, and he who understands history knows how to find continuity between that which was, that which is, and that which will be.”As a result they observed that the modern world of “form follows function” had been dismembered. In Las Vegas, communication trumped function; graphic signs dominated architectural space. This recognition reoriented graphic designers and architects to a new postmodern world—a world of appropriation filled with irony, cliché, and pastiche: a world where, as Venturi says of Las Vegas, “If you take the signs away, there is no place.”Because the spatial relationships are made by symbols more than by forms, architecture in this landscape becomes symbol in space, rather than form in space.We discovered that as increased space was inserted between letters, the words or word groups became graphic in expression, and that understanding the message was less dependent upon reading than we had supposed.Reflecting current linguistic theory, the notion of “authorship” as a personal, formal vocabulary is less important than the dialogue between the graphic object and its audience; no longer are there one-way statements from designers. The layering of content, as opposed to New Wave’s formal layering of collage elements, is the key to this exchange. Objective communication is enhanced by deferred meanings, hidden stories, and alternative interpretations.When craft is put into the framework of graphic design, this might constitute what is meant by the “designer’s voice”—that part of a design that is not industriously addressing the ulterior motives of a project, but instead follows the inner agenda of the designer’s craft. This guides the “body of work” of a designer over and beyond the particular goal of each project. So craft is about tactics and concepts, seeking opportunities in the gaps of what is known, rather than trying to organize everything in a unifying theory.This is what is missing from all of the predictions for the future of design as a purely conceptual or technical activity. It’s frustrating to watch so many attempt to reduce design to a theoretical argument, undervaluing the knowledge and pleasure to be gained by passionate engagement in the craft itself. The knowledge gained through activities that can be described as tactical, everyday, or simply craft is powerful and important, and it must form the foundation of a designer’s education and work—it is how we create ideas; again, how we create culture. Why else are we here?The underlying premise is that a viewer receives stimuli in two modes: seeing—a visual, simultaneous, intuitive, experiential, perceptual, gestalt process; and reading—a verbal, sequential, learned, cerebral, decoding process. Typically we assume that viewers “see” images and “read” words, but this model also links “seeing” with text and “reading” with imagery.Foucault noted that the figure of the author is not a particularly liberating one: the author as origin, authority, and ultimate owner of the text guards against the free will of the reader. Transferring the authority of the text back over to the author contains and categorizes the work, narrowing the possibilities for interpretation.If we really want to go beyond the designer-as-hero model, we may have to imagine a time when we can ask, “What difference does it make who designed it?”The template mentality emphasizes work over style or even clarity.More likely, it is not space that demands our attention now so much as our representation of space, and our ability to mold and manage ideas within boundaries that are fundamentally intangible: what we need is a reconsideration of spatial paradigms in an immaterial world.