Stationary in unending silence, a still life: Man in Elevator.I always say—a prejudice on my part, I’m sure—you can tell a lot about a person’s character from his choice of sofa. Sofas constitute a realm inviolate unto themselves.There are people who drive luxury cars, but have only second- or third-rate sofas in their homes. I put little trust in such people.Procuring a good sofa, on the other hand, requires style and experience and philosophy. It takes money, yes, but you also need a vision of the superior sofa. That sofa among sofas.Nice and artsy. Like a composition of down pillow with ice scraper, ink bottle with lettuce.Had he bought the whole outfit at a nouveau riche children’s haberdashery?Nobody can outguess the future.I wished I could have been a little more oblivious. I put myself in the driver’s seat, woman sitting next to me, cruising the late night streets to an innocuous pop beat. Did the woman take off her bracelets during sex? Nice if she didn’t. Even if she was naked, those two bracelets needed to be there.“Your grandfather must be some kind of cabinet fetishist,” I remarked. “No way,” she defended. “A fetishist’s someone who’s got a fixation on one thing only. Of course, Grandfather’s good at cabinetry. He’s good at everything. Genius doesn’t specialize; genius is reason in itself.”The only thing was, I didn’t subscribe to a newspaper. I’d given up on newspapers three years ago. Why? I felt disconnected. Converting numbers in my brain was my only connection to the world. Most of my free time I chose to spend alone, reading old novels, watching old Hollywood movies on video, drinking. I had no need for a newspaper. Even so, deprived of light in this netherworld, I found myself longing for the morning edition. To sit down in a sunny spot and lap it up like a cat at its dish of milk, first page to last, to read every word of print.The problem is, the Town is perfectly wrong. Every last thing is skewed, so that the total distortion is seamless. It’s a whole.Take our black box. You can set it aside without so much as ever touchin’ it, or you can use its bein’ a black box t’your advantage. Only—” paused the Professor, one finger raised theatrically, “only—you have t’solve two problems. The first is random chance on the surface level of action. And the other is changes in the black box due t’new experiences. Neither is very easy t’resolve. Because, like you said, both are perfectly normal for humans. As long as an individual’s alive, he will undergo experience in some form or other, and those experiences are stored up instant by instant. To stop experiencin’ is to die.I ordered a second draft, when I was hit by the long overdue urge to relieve myself. And piss I did. How could one bladder hold so much? I was in no particular hurry, so I kept going for a whole two minutes—with Bolero building to its enormous crescendo. It made me feel as if I could piss forever.“When I first read that, I didn’t know what Alyosha meant,” I said. “How was it possible for a life of misery to be happy overall? But then I understood, that misery could be limited to the future.” “I have no idea what you’re talking about.” “Neither do I,” I said. “Not yet.”