Identifying what constitutes a great mind, whether logical or magical or whimsical, is a necessarily subjective endeavor. Emulating a great mind is an even more complex proposition.In my interview with him, Milton Glaser observed, “You convey your ideas by the authenticity of your being.” Throughout these pages, there are a great many masters who offer ideas and wisdom through their authenticity.Massimo had this saying: “Once a work is out there, it doesn’t really matter what the excuses were.”I remember looking at the first prototype I designed. I just couldn’t take my eyes off of it; it was so beautiful, so real, and so perfect. But over enough time, it becomes all too flawed, or worse, you become bored with it.When I get a request to come up with something brand-new, it’s really hard for me. Really hard. I end up having to invent a problem in order to do it. And that is something I just love doing. It gives me great physical pleasure to solve problems. I remember watching Massimo Vignelli do things over and over again. But each time, they were always slightly different. He found enormous pleasure in finding slightly different ways of doing the thing that he loved to do.My guidance counselor thought I was really smart and felt it was a waste for me to go into art instead of becoming a doctor or a lawyer. I thought that there must be a lot of smart doctors and lawyers but I didn’t think there could be quite as many smart commercial artists. And I remember thinking, “I bet a smart commercial artist would really have an edge on things.”Milton has often talked about the confusion many people have about the word “art.” He has suggested that we replace the term with “work,” and proposed the following maxim: “Work that goes beyond its functional intention and moves us in deep and mysterious ways we call great work.”My favorite quote is by the English novelist Iris Murdoch. She said, “Love is the very difficult understanding that something other than yourself is real.” I like the idea that all that love is, is acknowledging another’s reality.And I realized that the focus of his life was about the consequences of his work rather than the work itself. And I think that is a kind of sadness. Because it leaves you with nothing.Yes. But there is a dark side to this. People develop communities that define themselves and isolate them from others. This leads to a kind of estrangement from everyone else. And before you know it, there’s a class or status war, or some other sense that we’re more important because of our desires, or a sense of betterment because we have good taste, or because we earn more money. That collective identification quickly turns into a way of excluding others from humanity.It’s in the interest of advertisers that people choose to think in the way the advertisers intend them to. It’s a formulaic thing, where there’s only one possible outcome in advertising. That creates a space where the “right to thought” is taken away from people. I’ve always tried to approach my work as being open-ended and with a degree of abstraction or ambiguity. This prevents it from being a monologue, because it is a dialogue. The work is only completed when a viewer has looked at it and made his or her own decision as to the full meaning of the piece.No one’s prepared to engage with difficult ideas anymore. It is very rare that graphic design is a difficult, engaging space these days.At the end of the day, I think we must always try to expand our spectrum. The more people we try to communicate with, the more generic our messages have to become. And as our messages become more generic, it’s less likely that people will have access to anything that’s different. I know this is slightly negative, but it’s not meant to be. It’s a plea for humanism.Can you elaborate? Younger designers and would-be designers must understand that communication design is for others and to others. As opposed to— For yourself, to yourself. There is a great misconception in this era of graphic design that it is a medium of self-expression.How do you feel about the fact that design is now being used as advertising? This is where a dilemma and crisis come in. I believe that good design is fundamentally orientated around truth, and once it loses its truth, you’ve lost it completely. The semiotics of good design imply that if we’ve redesigned a magazine or a hotel or a hospital, it is now better; that new problems have been solved; that new challenges have been addressed. In contemporary projects, we’re often not making things better, we’re just making things different: “It’s just different because we’d like you to buy more.”I likened it recently to pop culture: It’s gone from being like acid to being like crack. Pop culture is like crack. It doesn’t give you anything. It just wants to take your money, and when you’ve run out, you can fuck off.