However, I found myself repeatedly violating the storytelling maxim that exposition should always be the subtext of interaction between characters and never straight explanation.Ms. Minto recast 19th century German playwright Gustav Freytag’s dramatic story arc into the situation-complication-question-answer (SCQA) approach to drafting introductions to business communications.As this example illustrates, the only way to know if you have gone high enough is to push yourself one step too far and then come back. If your path leads you to the total annihilation of the known universe, so be it.Tip 3: Build out the mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive set of issues It may be that delivery efficiency is the best lever the Postmaster General has to improve the profitability of the USPS. However, you cannot be sure until you flesh out the issue tree by filling in the mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive (MECE: pronounced ‘me-see’) set of issues. Mutually exclusive means the issues are independent of each other. In my experience, issues sometimes mildly overlap, so do not get overly hung-up on perfection. Collectively exhaustive means all possible issues are included.To ensure your hypotheses are testable, make them SMART just as we did with the overall presentation title in Chapter 2. (So that you do not need to page back, SMART stands for specific, measureable, action-oriented, relevant, and time-bound.)Now go out and interview the top ten performers. Rather than asking them what they do or what they would do in the abstract, apply an anthropological approach by asking them to walk you step-by-step through a recent transaction they completed. How did they first identify the prospect? How did they make first contact? What resources did they bring to bear during the sales process? Who was involved in the decision?Rather than asking the ineffective question, “What are your best practices?” you are discovering best practices by listening for behaviors common among successful people.When listeners are extremely anxious, begin with the resolution. This is known in military parlance as ‘bottom-line-up-front” (BLUF) and in consulting terminology as starting with the top of the inverted pyramid. For this approach to have a soothing effect, you must be reasonably certain your audience will easily understand and readily accept your recommendation as a compelling solution to its problem. If not, you may end up doing more harm than good. Furthermore, giving away the ending at the beginning kills all dramatic tension and makes for an extremely boring presentation. Due to the risk of either extreme tension or zero tension, starting a presentation with a resolution should be reserved for rare circumstances.“What” titles, technically noun phrases, lack the audience-focused emotional punch you find in “so-what” titles describing outcomes.