The diary is the log of her journey through the labyrinth of the self, of her effort to find, and to define, the woman Anaïs, the real and the symbolic one who balances "between" action and contemplation, involvement and self-preservation, emotion and intellect, dreams and reality, and who sometimes despairs"What makes people despair," she wrote, "is that they try to find a universal meaning to the whole of life, and then end up by saying it is absurd, illogical, empty of meaning. There is not one big, cosmic meaning for all, there is only the meaning we each give to our life, an individual meaning, an individual plot, like an individual novel, a book for each person. To seek a total unity is wrong."There were always, in me," she noted soberly at the age of twenty-nine, "two women at least, one woman desperate and bewildered, who felt she was drowning, and another who would leap into a scene, as upon a stage, conceal her true emotions because they were weaknesses, helplessness, despair, and present to the world only a smile, an eagerness, curiosity, enthusiasm, interest." While the world watched with fascination the gay, charming, intelligent, mysterious Anaïs, the other women in her—the shy, the strong, the practical, the unsure, the observing, the detached, the childish—clamored for recognition in the pages of the diary. It is the gathering place of her fragmented self, her retreat from the demands of living.takes on the air of a prison gate. An unjust feeling, since I know I can leave the place whenever I want to, and since I know that human beings place upon an object, or a person, this responsibility of being the obstacle when the obstacle lies always within one's self.Every room is painted a different color. As if there were one room for every separate mood: lacquer red for vehemence, pale turquoise for reveries, peach color for gentleness, green for repose, grey for work at the typewriter.Ordinary life does not interest me. I seek only the high moments. I am in accord with the surrealists, searching for the marvelous.You live like this, sheltered, in a delicate world, and you believe you are living. Then you read a book (Lady Chatterley, for instance), or you take a trip, or you talk with Richard, and you discover that you are not living, that you are hibernating. The symptoms of hibernating are easily detectable: first, restlessness. The second symptom (when hibernating becomes dangerous and might degenerate into death): absence of pleasure. That is all. It appears like an innocuous illness. Monotony, boredom, death. Millions live like this (or die like this) without knowing it. They work in offices. They drive a car. They picnic with their families. They raise children. And then some shock treatment takes place, a person, a book, a song, and it awakens them and saves them from death.She never answered direct questions. She reminded me of the Arabs who believe that true intelligence consists of concealment of your thoughts.I have always believed in André Breton's freedom, to write as one thinks, in the order and disorder in which one feels and thinks, to follow sensations and absurd correlations of events and images, to trust to the new realms they lead one into. "The cult of the marvelous." Also the cult of the unconscious leadership, the cult of mystery, the evasion of false logic. The cult of the unconscious as proclaimed by Rimbaud. It is not madness. It is an effort to transcend the rigidities and the patterns made by the rational mind.Why should I care? But I do care. I care about everything. Emotionalism and sensibility are my quicksands.(Had she learned there her skill in balancing in space, in time, avoiding all definitions and crystallizations? Had she learned from her father to deal in camouflage, in quick sleight of hand?They must have been drawn together by his need to expose illusion, her need to create it. A satanic pact. One of them must triumph: the realist or the mythmaker.I said, "I do feel that perhaps you did not ask the correct questions of the Sphinx." "What would you ask?" "I would not be concerned with the secrets, the lies, the mysteries, the facts. I would be concerned with what makes them necessary. What fear."know Henry thinks I'm mad because I want only fever. I don't want objectivity, I don't want distance. I don't want to become detached."I love June for what she has dared to be, for her hardness and cruelty, her relentlessness, her egoism, her pride, her destructiveness. I am suffocated by my compassions. She is a personality expanded to the limit.She says of me, "You are at once so decadent and so alive." She is so decadent and so alive. Our love would be death.As soon as someone defines me, I do as June does; I seek escape from the confinements of definition. Am I good? Kind? Then I seek to see how far I can go into unkindness (not very far), into hardness. But I do feel I can always come back to my true nature. Can June come back to her true nature?So many people had sought the way into June's true nature and had not guessed the strength and fullness of her imaginative world, her isolation, the June who lives in symbols, who shrinks from crudeness.What a secret language we talk. Undertones, overtones, nuances, abstractions, symbols.I do not think that, in spite of the passion so often described by Henry, June and Henry have really ever fused, yielded to each other, possessed each other. Their individualities are too strong. They are at war with each other, love is a conflict, they lie to each other, they mistrust each other.Hell is a different place for each man, or each man has his own particular hell.I always endowed madness with a sacred, poetic value, a mystical value. It seemed to me to be a denial of ordinary life, an effort to transcend it, to expand, to go far beyond the limitations of La Condition Humaine.I said, "If there is an explanation of the mystery, it is this: the love between women is a refuge and an escape into harmony and narcissism in place of conflict. In the love between man and woman there is resistance and conflict. Two women do not judge each other. They form an alliance. It is, in a way, self-love. I love June because she is the woman I would like to be. I don't know why June loves me."All but freedom, utter freedom, is death.When she told you that her mother had died, that she never knew her father, that she was illegitimate, she wanted to begin nowhere, to begin without roots, to plunge into invention. Anyone could be her father. She loved the suspense, the possible surprise. She did not want to be classified, she did not want to be associated with any race, nationality, or background either.Mindless, the life of our unconscious without control. There is a fantastic courage in this, to live without laws, without fetters, without thought of consequences.I never said to June, "You lie," but "You imagined, you invented," as I wish my parents had said to me when I fabricated tales of meeting jungle animals in the street, etc.I could understand and see, as if I had been there, the devastating charade lovers enter upon. Henry's and June's was on the theme of truth and non-truth, illusion and reality. The meshing only took place in the interlockings of desire. Sudden, violent desires. No time to turn down coverlets, to close windows, to turn out the lights. Against the wall, on the carpet, on a chair, on a couch, in taxis, in elevators, in parks, on rivers, on boats, in the woods, on balconies, in doorways at night, they grappled body to body, breath to breath, tongue against tongue, as if to enclose, enmesh, imprison once and forever, essences, odors, flavors which eluded them at other times.I have learned from Henry to make notes, to expand, not to brood secretly, to move, to write every day, to do, to say instead of meditating, not to conceal the breaking up of myself under emotion.They all want to sanctify me, to turn me into an effigy, a myth. They want to idealize me and pray to me, use me for consolation, comfort. Curse my image, the image of me which faces me every day with the same over-fineness, over-delicacy, the pride, the vulnerability which makes people want to preserve me, treat me with care."No, he was seeking to be created, to be born, to be warmed into existence, to be imagined, to be known, to be identified; he was seeking a procreative miracle.Only love seeks to know and to create or rescue the loved one."Again and again I have entered realism, and found it arid, limited. Again and again I return to poetry.To destroy is easy."To be entirely honest with myself, I like to be away from June. It is then I enjoy her best. When she is here, I am morbid, oppressed, desperate. I am satiated with experience and pain."I always run away from the simplest phrases because they never contain all of the truth. To me the truth is something which cannot be told in a few words, and those who simplify the universe only reduce the expansion of its meaning.Man can control his destiny, says Allendy, to the extent that he becomes aware of these tropisms, but it requires a real initiation, similar to Buddhist discipline which enables disciples to escape their karma through knowledge. Psychoanalysis can overcome what we call bad luck, or tragedy, or fatality."I have no brakes on," I said. "Analysis is for those who are paralyzed byMan's vanity is greater than a woman's—because his whole life is based on a manly cult of conquering, from the Dark Ages, when the one who could not hunt and was not strong died. His vanity is immense, and the wounds to it are vital and fatal."At that moment I knew Henry had perceived the part of me that is half child, the part of me who likes to be amazed, to be taught, to be guided. I became a child listening to Henry, and he became paternal. The haunting image of an erudite, literary father reasserted itself, and the woman became a child again.Dr. Allendy: "Of course, to an analyst, it is very clear, even in your appearance." Anaïs: "In my appearance?" Dr. Allendy: "Yes, everything you wear, the way you walk, sit, stand is seductive and it is only people who are unsure who act constantly in a seductive manner and dress to charm."I too am interested in evil, and I want my Dionysian life, drunkenness and passion and chaos; and yet here I am, sitting at a kitchen table and working with Henry on the portrait of June, while Fred is making a stew.I feel that an initial shock has shattered my wholeness, that I am like a shattered mirror. Each piece has gone off and developed a life of its own.Henry called my house a laboratory of the soul. Enter this laboratory of the soul where every feeling will be X-rayed by Dr. Allendy to expose the blocks, the twists, the deformations, the scars which interfere with the flow of life. Enter this laboratory of the soul where incidents are refracted into a diary, dissected to prove that everyone of us carries a deforming mirror where he sees himself too small or too large, too fat or too thin, even Henry, who believes himself so free, blithe, and unscarred. Enter here where one discovers that destiny can be directed, that one does not need to remain in bondage to the first wax imprint made on childhood sensibilities. One need not be branded by the first pattern. Once the deforming mirror is smashed, there is a possibility of wholeness; there is a possibility of joy.(The way I once concealed from myself this drama of perpetual divorce was to blame the clock. It was time to go, in place of now I must go, because relationship is so difficult for me, so strained, so laborious, its continuance, its flow.) I never knew what happened. At a party, at a visit, at a play, a film, came a moment of anguish. I cannot sustain the role, the pretense that I am at one with others, synchronized. Where was the exit? Flight. The imperative need of flight.Before Henry, I thought art was the paradise, not human life, that in art alone could pain become an abstraction. It was a man's way of mastering pain, to put art and space and time and history and philosophy between himself and human life. Art was the prescription for sanity and relief from the terrors and pains of human life.Then he ventured to say (for all the art of analysis consists in saying a truth only when the other person is ready for it, has been prepared for it by an organic process of gradation and evolution) that he thought I had also dressed to accentuate my "strangeness," my separateness from the crowd, but in a way which reminded him of what the primitives wore to frighten their enemies!Dr. Allendy said that it was necessary to become equal to life, that the romantic was defeated by life, really died of it, whether by tuberculosis in the old days, or by neurosis today. I had never thought before of the connection between neurosis and romanticism. Wanting the impossible? Dying when unable to reach it? Not wanting to compromise?Lawrence was a romantic, and he sought to fuse body and soul. Henry asserts the primitive instincts. He leaves feeling out of his writing. No symbolism in Henry, no mythology.I also at times feel I want to make an effort to overcome my fears, and my recoils. I am afraid that if I followed my natural bent, I would withdraw from the world. Henry embraces everything, the ugly, the sick, the vulgar. I admire that. I made a world so beautiful, filled only with people of quality, with beauty and finesse, and it was static."I had lost my true rhythm. But what was my true rhythm? This was too direct a question for Dr. Allendy to answer.If psychoanalysis is going to divest me of all decoration, costume, adornment, flavor, characteristic, then what will be left?This brings him to the idea of destiny: "what we fear might happen, does happen." I always fear to be abandoned or at least neglected, and so it happens ... I make it happen.This set me dreaming about fatality. Do human beings pick up "waves" from others' thoughts? Did Dr. Allendy pick up waves of my thoughts while I sat waiting: be late, and then I will be able not to trust you, confide in you, love you, and be in another's power?The more broadly and expansively you love, without exclusiveness, the more you reach the mystic whole, the larger sense of love, the less individualistic, the more universal love."You are so terribly clever, so nimble. I distrust your cleverness. You make wonderful patterns—everything is in its place—it looks convincingly clear—too clear. And meanwhile, where are you? Not on the clear surface of your ideas, but you have already sunk deeper, into darker regions—so that one only thinks one has been given all you thought, one only imagines you have emptied yourself in that clarity. But there are layers, and layers—you're bottomless, unfathomable. Your clearness is deceptive. You're the thinker who arouses the most confusion in me, most doubts, most disturbances."I may be basically good, human, loving, but I am also more than that, imaginatively dual, complex, an illusionist.I was stunned. I saw a new truth. I saw a gigantic tangle. I am mystified and strangely lucid at the same time. I am not vacillating between Henry and June, but between two truths I see with clarity. I believe in Henry as a human being, although I am fully aware of the literary monster. I believe in June, although I am fully aware of her destructive power.You have intuition. What does it matter what I do, it is what I am that matters." True. What matters is the essence of June, and it is this essence which Henry has not grasped. He is too literal.The conflict is all the greater because each man is strong within his own role and symbolic value. Allendy is truly a kingly man, an intrepid scientist, a scholar, a man who is seeking to relate science and mysticism; he is a leader, a teacher, a healer.June and I were walking together over dead leaves crackling like paper. She was weeping over the end of a cycle. How one must be thrust out of a finished cycle in life, and that leap the most difficult to make—to part with one's faith, one's love, when one would prefer to renew the faith and re-create the passion. The struggle to emerge out of the past, clean of memories; the inadequacy of our hearts to cut life into separate and final portions; the pain of this constant ambivalence and interrelation of emotions; the hunger for frontiers against which we might lean as upon closed doors before we proceed forward; the struggle against diffusion, new beginnings, against finality in acts without finality or end, in our cursedly repercussive being...I try to follow his ideas, but what a tremendous arc he is making. D. H. Lawrence, Joyce, Élie Faure, Dostoevsky, criticism, nudism, his creed, his attitude, Michael Fraenkel, Keyserling. He is asserting himself as a thinker; he is asserting his seriousness. He is tired of being considered a mere "cunt painter," an experimentalist, a revolutionary.It is June who vomits, and I who feel I have vomited my whole life. The real wine, the real bodies, the real kisses, the real cafés, the real kitchen, external ecstasies. I yearn for the ecstasies of writing, reading, music, philosophy, contemplation; I yearn for that room I saw through an open window, lined with books, suspended over life, where nothing ever turns to dregs, where landings are not crash landings.At one moment, when she had spoken movingly of her faith and the wholeness of her love for Henry, I laid my head on her knees and said, "June, I worship you." She answered, "I don't want worship. I want understanding." Henry's cry, too: "I want understanding!" There is a shortage of understanding.Henry teases me about my memory for conversation. Every now and then he says: "Put this down in your diary." He never says, as others do: "Do not put this down in your diary."A big enough artist, I say, can eat anything, must eat everything and then alchemize it. Only the feeble writer is afraid of expansion. Henry is fulfilling a deep necessity: to situate himself, to adopt values, to seek a basis for what he is to build.I laugh at my old fear of analysis. The possession of knowledge does not kill the sense of wonder and mystery. There is always more mystery. I have no fear of clarity.The weakness of the man, his listening to June to the very end of all she had to say, becomes, in the case of the writer, the passivity of the artist as spectator of life. Listening to June he ceased to be a man who should have silenced her; he became an investigator listening to what a normal man would not have wanted to observe.Could I deceive a professional analyst? The secret of my lies must be that which makes for good acting. I never plunge into a lie carelessly, without first telling myself: "How would I feel if this were true?" (How would I feel if I had broken with Henry's world?) I start feeling and believing the situation. Also I have learned transpositions. I borrow from the distress caused me by June's behavior and transfer this to the present.It was only later that I regretted the lies, for lies create solitude. I needed someone to talk to openly, and by lying to Allendy I forced myself back into a terrible solitude."It is a malady in me, perhaps, but I have never been a passionate man, never knew anything but tenderness for women."I see so clearly the aim, the mood, the temper of his work, that I am able to help him cut out extraneous material, change the order of chapters. I told him my theory of skipping meaningless details, as the dream skips them, which produces not only intensity but power. He begins, "Wednesday morning I stood at the corner..." I say, drop "Wednesday"; drop the extra weight to achieve speed, the essential ... a literature of "cuts."I am merciless on his childish rantings (he has a folder of pages I have extracted because they were just tantrums, as I said), everything petty, over-realistic (his fights with June over the value of Greta Garbo). I say: "Have bigger fights." When he is irritated he produces a petty literalness.Tragic marriages for the women who married my brothers too: they feel like outsiders. We do not feel their sorrows, for who are they? Merely human beings, banal little human beings, baffled and defeated by emotions, by our lack of sympathy, unable to share our anachronistic exaltations, our search for ecstasy."To the poets, insanity seems closer to divinity than sanity. The madman arrives at death not by human progression, the disintegration of cells, but by a series of holocausts.I stand before each new world, new person, new country, hesitant, unsure, hating new obstacles, new mysteries, new possibilities of pain, of blunders from lack of courage. Fear, lack of confidence, has narrowed my world, limited the people I have known intimately. The difficulty of communion. Je vous présente mes hommages, Madame. Politeness like a shield. Culture is a shield. The world of my father. With Henry it is the world of my mother.When she complains that he utters only perfectly ordinary phrases, then I experience the strange pain and jealousy of not being a man; for I would know what to say to Jeanne, how to court her dreaming heart.When I break glasses in a night club, as the Russians do, when my unconscious breaks out in wild rebellions, it is against life which has crippled these idealistic, romantic men. I respect these men, cold, pure, faithful, devoted, moral, delicate, sensitive, and unequal to life, more than I respect the tough-minded ones who return three blows to one received, who kill those who hurt them.I plied him with questions. He said, "I always thought that one had to deserve love, I worked so hard to merit it." This phrase was so much like what I often wrote in my diary. The idea of deserving love. And then watching love being given to people who did nothing to deserve it.Talking with Henry I experience the sensation that there will come a time when we will both understand everything, because our masculine and feminine minds are trying to meet, not to fight each other. June could only be perceived by way of madness. The territory of woman is that which lies untouched by the direct desire of man. Man attacks the vital center. Woman fills out the circumference."Don't wait for it," I said. "Create a world, your world. Alone. Stand alone. Create. And then the love will come to you, then it comes to you. It was only when I wrote my first book that the world I wanted to live in opened to me."Henry talks about schizophrenia, the universe of death, the Hamlet-Faust cycle, Destiny, the Soul, macromicrocosm, megalopolitan civilization, surrender to biology. I feel he should be writing only about his life, not ideas. Why does he want to appear to be a thinker, a philosopher? Or is he seeking to put his world in order so he can make a place for himself?He likes order. He says all great artists like order. A profound order. So Henry is now trying to master chaos.The romantic submits to life, the classicist dominates it.For him, the plague was no worse than death by mediocrity, death by commercialism, death by corruption which surrounded us. He wanted to make people aware that they were dying. To force them into a poetic state.Poor Allendy did not understand that all I craved were the flagellations of real passion and enslavement by authentic savages only. Allendy said: 'This way you reach a kind of vertigo.'" After we laughed, we became serious. I said to Marguerite: "The question is, have men died today because they have tampered with the sources of life, or do they tamper with the sources of life because they are dead and wish to find its springs again, to create an artificial control of the sources of life?"He relaxed slowly as we talked. He began to talk flowingly. His talk so tenuous. It gives a strange feeling, as if one were witnessing the very process of a birth of a thought, a feeling. One can see the nebula, the unformed mass moving, struggling for shape, the careful, precise, meticulous, scrupulous effort made not to betray its meaning by a careless word. He doubts all explicitness. Thought has to be surrounded, spied upon, captured, like some elusive matter.Dr. Otto Rank on Art and Artist:   The neurotic, no matter whether productive or obstructed, suffers fundamentally from the fact that he cannot or will not accept himself, his own individuality, his own personality. On one hand he criticizes himself to excess, on the other he idealizes himself to excess, which means that he makes too great demands on himself and his completeness, so that failing to attain leads only to more self-criticism. If we take this thwarted type, as we may do for our purpose, and compare him to the artist, it is at once clear that the artist is, in a sense, the antithesis to the self-critical neurotic type. Not that the artist does not criticize himself, but by accepting his personality he not only fulfils that for which the neurotic is striving in vain, but goes far beyond it. The precondition, then, of the creative personality is not only acceptance, but its actual glorification of itself.And I see the question of my sincerity could easily drive me insane if I studied it continuously. My imagination entangles me hopelessly. I lose myself. What distresses me is that I seem to play on the feelings of people.Antonin Artaud. We talked with passion about our habit of condensation, rigorous sifting, our quest of the essential, love of essence, and distillations, in life, in literature.I regret nothing. I only regret that everybody wants to deprive me of the journal, which is the only steadfast friend I have, the only one which makes my life bearable; because my happiness with human beings is so precarious, my confiding moods rare, and the least sign of non-interest is enough to silence me. In the journal I am at ease."It was all too wonderful. It frightens me. I have lived too long in the most absolute moral solitude, spiritual solitude. It is easy to people one's world, but that does not satisfy me."irritation. Again it was clear that the only route to me is by way of the imagination. Steele is handsome, magnetic, but ordinary. Artaud is tormented and inspired.When Henry writes insane pages, it is the insanity produced by life, and not by the absence of life. The insanity of the surrealists, Breton and transition is in a void; whereas that of Henry is caused by the absurdities, ironies, pains of a surcharged over-full life.He is Savonarola burning pagan books, burning pleasures. His humor is almost Satanic, no clear joy, just a diabolical mirth."You are the plumed serpent," he said. "You glide over the earth but your plume stirs the air, the mind. That small detail, of your coming dressed as Mars, that a woman should live thus in symbols, that alone is amazing to me. And your ecstasy, too, is strange and different. It does not come in spurts; it is continuous. You live continuously on one level, you use a certain tone and never depart from it. Your talk is unreal."To be touched by Artaud means to be poisoned by the poison which is destroying him. With his hands he was imprisoning my dreams, because they were like his. I have a love for the poet who walks inside of my dreams, for his pain and the flame in him, but not for the man. I cannot be physically bound to him.And then I felt the need to leave, the need I always have, to leave.Henry has these Saturnian eclipses, as Artaud has. Cold, inexpressive, somber, lost. Artaud warned me against them because he is fully aware of them, aware of the self separated from the self.What does the world need, the illusion I gave in life, or the truth I give in writing? When I went about dreaming of satisfying people's dreams, satisfying their hunger for illusion, didn't I know that this was the most painful and the most insatiable hunger?Under the superficial surface, there are mysteries, never-ending depths, unknown regions, extending infinitely, unseizable because of his need to create an ideal figure.I felt nostalgia for a soft face which no longer exists, who might have been, then, the lover of my dreams. Today I see the crystallization. The mask of wisdom, control, aging, death."I am coming now to my China..." "What does China mean to you?" Henry's explanation is vague at first. China seems to stand for a certain condition of existence ... the universe of mere being. Where one lives like a plant, instinctively. No will. The great indifference, like that of the Hindu who lets himself be passive in order to let the seeds in him flower. Something between the will of the European and the karma of the Oriental.The figure of a cringing Masoch does not appeal to me. What appeals to me is this violent tasting of life's most fearful cruelties. No evasions of pain. That day I could not talk to the doorman or to the hairdresser, who needed sympathy, because I wanted to ask them why I had such a passion for fur, a real passion, so that if I had money I would carpet a room with fur, cover the walls with it, and cover myself with it.The only tender and stirring part of his rigid forms. I felt the form of his life, his instrumentation of it, as if he were a conductor. Musical intricacies and development. Each word, each feeling, each gesture composed, the synthesis of an élan, but an élan of art. At this hour, it is right. The moment is right. The lights. The room. Life orchestrated, molded by his will. When we walk together, don't take my arm. Movement subjugated, movement molded. Life contained, shaped, improved upon. No sloppiness, slovenliness, abandon, casualness. Style. Form. Now you can come. Wear your evening dress. Orchestration. Instrumentation. No disorder, no whims, no fantasies.Henry breaks all the molds, all the forms, all the shells, all the edifices of art, and what is born is warm and imperfect. It is human.I must expand, live out, love, so as to evade obsession. I must think of others, spread out.Somehow or other I always lose my guide halfway up the mountain, and he becomes my child. Even my father.I do not think I am looking for a man, but for a God. I am beginning to feel a void which must be the absence of God. I have called for a father, a guide, a leader, a protector, a friend, a lover, but I still miss something: it must be God. But I want a god in the flesh, not an abstraction, an incarnated god, with strength, two arms, and a sex. Perhaps I have loved the artist because creation is the nearest we come to divinity.How often I tried to kill the "ideal" self, assassinate the critical self. Lose myself. That is, one of them. The ideal self is slowly becoming a ridiculous figure. I laugh at it.It is like a drug. We talk about the dream—return to my original statement that most dreamwriting is false and intellectually composed, that the real dream has an authenticity and can be recognized. The intellectually composed or fabricated dream does not arouse the dream sensation in others (like Cocteau's film, for instance).Immediately I catch the elements I do not like, which leave me cold. Logic, order, construction, classicism, equilibrium, control. I wanted to shout: I admire imperfections, Dostoevsky, Lawrence, and Henry. There is a power there.There were other reasons. I felt torn apart by my multiple relationships, and I would have been able to live fully in each one, had enough love and devotion for all of them, but they conflicted with each other.He considered neurosis a failed work of art, the neurotic a failed artist. Neurosis, he had written, was a manifestation of imagination and energy gone wrong. Instead of a fruit or a flower, I had borne obsessions and anxieties. It was this concept which appealed to me, that he did not call it an illness, but, as in nature, a misbegotten object which might have equal beauty and fascination as the relatives of more legitimate and noble birth. Neurosis was Spanish moss on a tree."I go beyond the psychoanalytical. Psychoanalysis emphasizes the resemblance between people; I emphasize the differences between people. They try to bring everybody to a certain normal level. I try to adapt each person to his own kind of universe. The creative instinct is apart."You wanted to create yourself, you did not want to be born of human parents.""What you call your lies are fiction and myths. The art of creating a disguise can be as beautiful as the creation of a painting."It was through psychology that we discovered that man's illusion about his objectivity was a fiction, a fiction he needed to believe in. The most objective systems of thought can be exposed as having a subjective base.After a while, he added: "Man is always trying to create a woman who will fill his needs, and that makes her untrue to herself. Many of your 'roles' came out of this desire to fulfill man's needs."His last three works have been translated into English under the titles, Modern Education, a Critique of Its Fundamental Ideas; Art and Artist; and Creative Urge and Personality Development.Rank had begun to consider the neurotic as a failed artist, as a creative personality gone wrong. Neurosis was a malfunction of the imagination. Rank did not treat neurotics with the contempt that some doctors did, as the old doctors treated insanity. There was also, in neurotic guilt, a symptom of the religious spirit, the negative expression of religiousness, and the negative aspect of creation.Romanticism was truly a parallel to neurosis. It demanded of reality an illusory world, love, an absolute which it could never obtain, and thus destroyed itself by the dream (in other centuries by tuberculosis and all the other romantic illnesses).A human being lies there at the center, but the core of this human being is an artist, not just a human being. This revelation of the artist and the creative process runs through all of Dr. Rank's questionings, and it is by being able to lay his hands on the invisible, the "soul," that he travels so much further than Allendy.The identification with the WHOLE can only come when the individual has lived out the utmost of his aspirations and is at peace with himself."Then I felt a feminine elation, like that of a woman who is asked to give all her possessions, all of herself. You demanded everything in one blow. I felt an elation due to a recognition of power, of mastery. Was it not power and mastery I was looking for? Did I not come to you because I felt lost, confused, disturbed. You realized that the diary was the key.Immediately I felt air and space, movement, vitality, joy of detecting, divining. The spaciousness of his mind. The fine dexterity and muscular power. The swift-changing colors of his own moods. The swiftness of his rhythm, because intuitive and subtle.I sense an intelligence rendered clairvoyant by feeling. I sense an artist.When others asked the truth of me, I was convinced it was not the truth they wanted, but an illusion they could bear to live with. I was convinced of people's need of illusion.Rank explained to me today that the reason why I had written about him was because the analysis was coming to an end, and I felt I was going to lose him. I felt impelled to recreate Rank for myself, by making a portrait of him.Rank waits, free, ready to leap, but not holding a little trap door in readiness which will click at the cliché phrase. He awaits free. You are a new human being. Unique. He detours the obvious, and begins a vast expansion into the greater, the vaster, the beyond. Art and imagination. With joyousness and alertness.We do not strike walls or obstacles by discovery, by tampering with the soul, the unconscious, but are tapping new sources of mystery, new realms. We are relinquishing second-rate mysteries for greater and deeper ones. We are no longer frightened by lightning, or storms, but are discovering these dangers lie in our own nature. We are discovering the symbolic significance of fact, even of a sexual act, which is not always a physical act.Dr. Rank seemed to be saying that there is a metaphysics of the artist. Viewing everything from the creative angle, that is, the activity which transcends our human life, the artist enlarges the boundaries of our whole life.but in looking further, he interpreted this as the creator's desire to be born a hero, self-born, a mythical birth.I still wonder if it is not the presence of the man Rank which imparts the wisdom he gives. I find it difficult to retain exact phrases. His presence, his being, conveys all kinds of subtle teachings. He defeats the past, its obsessive clutching hold, more by the fact of his enthusiasm, his interest, his adventurousness, his war against conventions than by any simple statement. It is his aliveness which sings the funeral rites of dead emotions, dead memories.Scientific analysis, in its effort to simplify, in order to conclude, restricts the outline of the personality and slowly creates a kind of disillusion, or impoverishment. The emphasis is laid on the explanation, not on the expression of the drama. Rank's artistic interest in the drama has an incalculable effect on the living experience of the neurotic.Deprived of religious beliefs, and of the power to create, man finds himself projecting into relationships his need of God, and his need for perfection. There is, in reality, nothing wrong with his nature except a great confusion. That is why the real doctor today must be the philosopher, and Rank is among those who know most deeply man's needs and the origin of his suffering today.Now, at last, I understand the plain chant of the neurotics. When I hear the laments of the neurotic-romantic, I recognize the tone. It is not a complaint born of what is happening; it is born of what they had imagined, expected, dreamed; and the lament seems out of proportion.I close my eyes to the immense web of ideologies. They weary me, this gigantic juggling of systems, orders, prophecies. I am a woman. I let my vision fall short. I understand everything, Spengler, Rank, Lawrence, Henry; but I get tired of those glacial regions. I feel their coldness, too high, too far from life. I am not happy there. I think of myself: I am tired of ideas. I feel myself pulling downward, growing more and more earthy. Yet I owe some of my greatest joys to that world, joys almost akin to the joys of love.Henry's keeping of a dream book for me became a small book (fifty pages) which he rewrote in a particularly chaotic style.*We analyzed the feeling one has in a dream of having made a long and wonderful speech, yet only a few phrases remain. It is like the state described by drug addicts. They imagine themselves utterly eloquent, and say very little. It is like the process of creation, when, for a whole day, we carry in us a tumultuous sea of ideas, and when we reach home it can be stated in one page.Realized it was because the description of physical torture was, for me, so much less potent than mental tortures. Physical tortures are banal and familiar. Mental tortures we are only now beginning to delve into.This time I feel distressed. It is too imitative and not superior. It materializes what I wrote, de-subtilizes it. What can I say? It is a satire. He does not seem to be conscious of it.I felt my mother's anger and despair. For the first time, my own image of my father fell to the floor. I saw my mother's image. I saw the child in him who demanded all love and did not know how to love in return. I saw the child incapable of an act of protectiveness, or self-denial.All his life he had played with people, with love, played at love, played at being a concert pianist, playing at composing, playing; because to no one or to nothing could he give his entire soul.Only when the dreams die do you get genuine copulation. It is the dreams which make fusion impossible. You marry the day you realize the human defects of your love.I then realized how Henry had unconsciously escaped beyond my judgment by entering the world of Spengler and Rank and overwhelming me with grandiloquence and gigantism, with enormity and massive constructions, imposing ideas, philosophic systems. I was finally blinded by Henry's long speeches, accumulation of notes, enormous amount of quotations, etc. Has Henry deceived himself as well as me? Have we lived in an immense illusion? He did say once: "I wonder whether I am saying something."used to build cathedrals, cathedrals of sentiment, for love, for love of men, for love as prayer, love as communion, with a great sense of continuity and detail and enduringness. Built against the flux and mobility of life, in defiance of it. Then with Henry, with June, with analysis, with Rank, I began to flow, not to build. Yesterday, flow seemed so easy. Pure flow and enjoyment of life leave me thirsty.I like Rank better serious than laughing. He does not know how to laugh. His pranks are inner pranks of the mind, his humor is paradox, the reversal of ideas, the trickeries and trapeze stunts of thoughts. I like his silent humor, his thought humor, but in life he is inexperienced. To living he brings nothing. The details of life which so fascinate Henry, he overlooks. The comic face of a passer-by, the color of a house, the savor of small things. Physical, visible life. He disregardsWhen caring ceases, when one no longer struggles to build solidly, indestructibly, no longer erects cathedrals of faithfulness to the past, cathedrals of emotion, when one enters the realms of laxity, areas of ironic indifference and resignation, letting life flow with a certain emotional negligence, one may attain states of nirvana, dreaminess, beatitudes of another kind.Marguerite says that the analyst has been made to play the role of God. He is imagined to be all-knowing, all-forgiving. But this role is destructive to a man.To formulate without destroying with the mind, without tampering, without killing, without withering. That is what I have learned by living, that delicacy and awe of the senses, that respect for the perfume. It will become my law in writing. All that was pushed into the laboratory, dissected under a hospital-naked light, pushed into clarity and rationality, withered. The beautiful, living and moving, dark things that I destroyed in passing from the nebulous realms of pure dreaming to a realization of the dream.I sit next to sensual Hiler who has invited me to be his mistress, and if not his mistress, then would I be his analyst, and if I would not be his analyst, would I smoke kief with him?"Man is a child, afraid of fatherhood; man is a child, and not a father. Man is an artist, who needs all the care, all the warmth for himself, as my father did. There is no end to his needs. He needs faith, indulgence, humor; he needs worship, good cooking, mended socks, errands, a hostess, a mistress, a mother, a sister, a secretary, a friend. He needs to be the only one in the world.I had come upon the infinite, through the flesh and through the blood. Through flesh and blood and love, I was made whole. I cannot say more. There is nothing more to say. The greatest communions come so simply.How to live in the present when no one else is there at the same time, nobody catches up with you, is there to answer? The present is made by the pleasure of collisions of two uncelestial bodies in uncelestial fusions.