Her attitude toward Henry Miller and his Bohemian friends is undergoing a change. She is less tolerant of people's eccentricities, of the waste of talent.Her "portraits," she explains, were done only "at the moment when a person was important to me. The person rises and sinks, appears and vanishes only in relation to me."purpose and function of the diary, perhaps also reflects the growth of Miss Nin's instinctive awareness of the inevitable choice facing the individual, and especially the artist, in the modern world.Just as the aristocrats are a vanishing race in Europe, perhaps here the human being who thought this was to be his world, is also being sacrificed to something else. Here in Dr. Rank's office I hear protests, revolts, sorrow, but outside they seem a part of the white-enameled, sterile buildings.Rank could not forget Harlem. He was eager to return to it. He could hardly wait to come to the end of his hard day's work. He said: "I am tempted to prescribe it to my patients. Go to Harlem! But they would have to go with you."Rank told me that women practiced deception very badly, that many of the women he had analyzed, when involved in any kind of intrigue, love or politics, always left a "clue," wanted to be discovered, mastered, wanted to lose. It was almost as if they continued to re-enact the old primitive forms of love-making, in which woman was overpowered by the strength of the man. To feel themselves conquered, in a more abstract situation, they enjoyed losing.In Gilbert and Sullivan's musical the soldier gets a cramp trying to play the role of the poet. Rank says everyone gets a cramp, physical or mental, when playing roles. Cramps of the soul, cramps of the body, arthritis of the emotions.The sick came endlessly, each one who was cured brought father, mother, sister, brother, friend. They multiplied in an alarming degree. Was this a new illness, born of our own times? No time for love, no time for friendship, no time for confidences.Rank touches all things with the magic of meaning. Those who come to him are like the blind, the dumb, the deaf. When he discovers the "plot" of their life, they become interested. This interest saves them. This plot created by the unconscious slowly reveals itself to be more interesting than any detective story. Rank uncovers the links, webs, patterns. It is endlessly interesting, full of surprises.Every other phrase uttered by Rank begins with: "I have an idea." The discovery of significance is what deepens and embellishes experience. No object, no gesture, no action which is not illumined with meaning.It seems to me that the answer lay in the attitude towards suffering. To some American writers anything but paradise was inacceptable. To the European it was part of the human condition, and something shared with other human beings.He wants me to rewrite all his books with my "French conciseness." He is a philosopher, not an artist. The poet is in love, a lover. The philosopher is a commentator.At times analysis creates another form of idealization. Too much is demanded of it. While analyzing so many people I realized the constant need of a mother, or a father, or a god (the same thing) is really immaturity. It is a childish need, a human need, but so universal that I can see how it gave birth to all religions. Will we ever be able to look for this strength in ourselves? Some men have. They have also gone mad with loneliness.The force of a man's ideological creation, and the human tragedy of it. His wisdom attracts people to him. "I am like a rich man who fears to be loved only for his money." He is lonely in his world of ideas."If I am an artist, as you say I am," said Henry, "then everything I do is right." "But the artist has to include a critic."The more I explore neurosis the more I become aware that it is a modern form of romanticism. It stems from the same source, a hunger for perfection, an obsession with living out what one has imagined, and if it is found to be illusory, a rejection of reality, the power to imagine and not to sustain one's endurance, and then the creative force turned into destruction.The more yielding, the more easily contented. Henry yields, accepts. Rank seeks to change, control. Henry is happier. Wisdom gained from ideas, the effort to control life intellectually is disastrous. This is the will D. H. Lawrence railed against.Evasion is possible by renunciation of life and creation in art. Or by accepting limitations. I was walking along Broadway thinking: in my books I can ordain, rule, walk, laugh, shout, accuse, act in any way I please. I am creator and king. The same will applied to life may destroy me. Many creators, romantics, neurotics, are tragic figures in life. They are absolutists. They tire of struggling against the limitations of life. In art there are none.My patients suffer from loneliness. Their illness isolates them. But when they are cured they suffer a different loneliness, because there are more neurotics than ex-neurotics. And the ex-neurotics have a special insight and a special language.The caricature aspect of life appears whenever the drunkenness of illusion wears off. Some Americans have lost the faculty for illusion, they are so pragmatically sober, that may be why they have to drink so much. They have not the power of levitation or escape of the poet or the artist who can make another world within this world.Prescriptions for delusions.I tried to explain but could not do so successfully. "It is something about the truth you cannot bear to see so you look at other things. The truth about a relationship appears sometimes in the first words that are uttered, but one does not want to hear them. I was thinking of my patients, and how the worst moment for them was when they discovered they were masters of their own fate. It was not a matter of bad or good luck. When they could no longer blame fate, they were in despair. Illusions. Delusions. That salesman is selling illusion."What a face he would make if I said to him: I am afraid of becoming a saint. This is what working at analysis has done to me. living so much for others gives me a fear of becoming a saint, of being lured back into the whitest corner of the dream, nun's wings like small ship's sails. My love for my patients, for that moment of absolute sincerity which takes place, makes me want to stay in the world.At times I feel Rank puts too great an emphasis on what ought to be rather than what is; he never accepts experience as a substitute for wisdom. At times I feel the process of accelerated wisdom may become a dangerous short-cut. It eliminates terror and pain. I feel it should only be used in extreme cases, when the neurotic is paralyzed, cannot live, cannot love, cannot work. At times Rank portrays an idyllic state, an expectation of life without pain. Rank is saying that man was born to be happy, that pain is illness.The body is an instrument which only gives off music when it is used as a body. Always an orchestra, and just as music traverses walls, so sensuality traverses the body and reaches up to ecstasy.In America, I can see, it is all survival of the tough. The sensitive, the tender are trampled down. Mass moulds, loss of individuality, confusion between individuality and the ego. So there has been a loss of individuality and respect for the self, a loss of identity.I was seeking a form of life which would be continuous like a symphony. The key word was the sea. It was this oceanic life which was being put in bottles and labeled. Underneath my feet, moving restlessly beneath the very floor of the hotel, was the sea, and my nature which would never amalgamate with analysis in any permanent marriage. I could not hear the discussion. I was listening for the sea's roar and pulse.A new me does not belong here any more, a new me is an adventurer and a nomad. People around me do not change as I do, do not sprout new branches. To come back was like being caught in a circle. I struggle against monotony and repetition.Everything that happens to a small group ultimately happens to the masses, to the world."Minkowski a très bien montré qu'un des symptômes les plus clairs de la perte de contacte avec la réalité était la perte du sens de repos."Henry believes in love, money, fame, as a child does. "It will always come from somewhere."Fear of the world produces crystals in writing. One seeks the faultless, crystallized phrases, perfection, the hard polish of gems, and then finds that people prefer the sloppy writers, the inchoate, the untidy, the unfocused ones because it is more human. To jewels they prefer human imperfections, moisture of perspiration, bad smells, stutterings, and all the time I keep this for the diary and give the world only jewels.I cannot share Fraenkel's madness as I shared and understood Artaud's. I think because in Fraenkel the madness is intellectual, and in Artaud it was rooted in real emotional pain. And besides, Artaud is a great poet.Marcel Duchamp thought that an artist should never crystallize, that he should remain open to change, renewal, adventure, experiment.My posing for artists at sixteen was unreal, shadowy. The writing about it sometimes brings it to life. I taste it then. My period as a debutante in Havana, no flavor. Why does this flavor sometimes appear later, while living another episode, or while telling it to someone? What revives it when it was not lived fully at the time?Conflict between my feminine self who wants to live in a man-ruled world, to live in harmony with men, and the creator in me capable of creating a world of my own and a rhythm of my own which I can't find anyone to share.The monster I am going to grapple with is the machine which mechanizes people. I am not a victim of it, so I can stand outside of it and challenge its power, defy its standardizations, dehumanizations, depersonalizations. I can even enjoy its loud mechanical heartbeat, the mechanical beat of New York. Pain at partingThere is a labyrinth design in the arrangement of the gardens. Bushes are placed to form a puzzle so you might get lost. They love the feeling of being lost. It has been interpreted as a desire to reproduce the infinite.Relationship does not depend so much on conversation or exchange as in the creation of a propitious, dreamy, meditative, contemplative atmosphere, a mood.A tiger who dreams, a tiger without claws.Henry states in seventy-eight pages of his book the most tragic of all truths: "Life does not interest me, what interests me is what I am doing now (this book) which is parallel to it, of it, and yet beyond it."We live on top of a crumbling world. The more it crumbles the more I feel like asserting the possibility of an individually perfect world, personal loves, personal relationships, creation. I may be trying to place an opium mat on top of a volcano. The world in chaos. Panic. Hysteria.Everyone has quit working, loving, living. Ideas are a separating element. Love is a communion with others. Mental worlds are isolators. Love makes one embrace all races, the whole world, all forms of creation. The artist really seeks a universal language, and artists from all parts of the world can understand each other."I do feel that the portraits in the diary are only done at the moment a person is important to me. The person rises and sinks, appears and vanishes only in relation to the range of my vision, in relation to what I see of him. It's like a statue without arm or head, unearthed, and having to be deciphered, divined.It reproduced exactly my most recurrent dream of a boat stuck in the ground, unable to sail for lack of water. Here it was, stranded and static, in an old garden. Never to sail again. Rotting in the earth, like a flower pot. With moss growing over it instead of barnacles, with the smell of earth on it instead of sea.My father came, egotistically, egocentrifugally, egocentripetally delightful and clear and clean as a Frigidaire and tender and lying, pathological and incurable mythomane.There are those, like Moricand, who give the impression of having closed the locks so that the water is held static in one place and no longer flows into one continuous river. Did he see Henry? Did he see me? We were spectators. His room has a meticulous order, a geometric precision and form, in spite of poverty, of illness, of anguish. No chaos. No explosions. "Explosions of Neptune," said Moricand, "are all internal, no one is aware of them."Gonzalo the laughing, the lazy, the debonair, with a love of the bottle. I envy those who can drink, disintegrate, grow loose, slack, careless, ragged, sick, because I can't. Something pulls me up always. I go there only to find myself a friend, and then I come out and entice them into my world, away from theirs.I want to become more and more childish and to pass beyond childhood in the opposite direction. I want to go exactly contrary to the normal line of development, pass into a super-infantile realm of being which will be absolutely crazy and chaotic but not crazy and chaotic as the world about me.I once said to Henry: "I don't like clowns, I like madmen." Henry said: "Madmen are too serious. I like clowns."Even a poet like Moricand does not understand that there are ways to stimulate dreams without artifice. He associated boats with opium. Always thought I took drugs and that House of Incest was a product of an opium dream. I laughed at this concept. I said: "There are experiences which come from living out one's dreams. I once dreamed about a houseboat and was not satisfied until I had one."His poetic-psychological novels are masterpieces. Analytical insight wrapped in poetry is far more potent than bare analysis. The drug of poetry makes truth and lucidity more absorbent. The intellect cannot resist its invasion. Language becomes the magic potion. Rhythm becomes the instrument of contagion, and the fluidity of the images flows directly into the subconscious without interference. Pierre-Jean Jouve has described a world in which visions, hallucinations, symbolism, usually relegated to our night life, operate in full daylight, and in unison with the body, fusing desire and fantasy, dream and action, reverie and passion.In life we have these sudden illuminations, sudden blanks, sudden shadows, sudden abysses, and incoherence according to a logic which has been proved pseudo-logic.One must not be afraid. One must know how to float as words do, without roots and without watering cans. One must know how to navigate without latitudes and longitudes and without motor. Without drugs and without burdens. One must learn to breathe like a wind-measuring instrument. The cord must be made of sand, the anchor of aurora borealis.Each object auctioned off contained a fragment of my past. I had regrets for the passing of time and the death of homes, objects, and the change and passing of feelings and attachments.The organization of the world is a task for realists. The poet and the workman will always be the victims of power and self-interest. No world will ever be run by an idealistic team because by the time it begins to function it ceases to be unselfish. When the Catholic Church became a force, a power, an organization, it ceased to be a religion. The realist, the man of power and greed, always conquers over the humanist. Greed wins out. The world will always be ruled by the materialist."If I still cannot believe in systems, I do believe in people.Gonzalo is hungry for heroic living. His strength and pride are aroused. I do like those who are willing to turn the world upside down for a new faith, a new effort, a new attempt to cure corruption.I saw them as one sees a Viennese waltz in a film, or on a stage. Crystal chandeliers, music, animation, rhythm. Lyrical moments. This time my eyes opened and I saw their faces, their gestures, saw expressions I had never noticed. The rich and the nouveaux riches, the aristocrats and the tycoons. I saw irony, arrogance, greed, malice, mockery, self-satisfaction, shallowness. And when I questioned the value of each person at the table as individuals, I could not find any.Men think they live and die for ideas. What a divine joke. They live and die for emotional, personal errors, just as women do.Even if I answered your questions and told you more about my life, it would not add to your intuitive knowledge of me. Besides, I suspect there is a lot of affinity between our emotional attitude towards life, and towards love, because I always seek, as you do, to realize as fully as possible all that I imagine, or carry within myself.There are two kinds of dynamite. One invisible, one visible. Men who are not metaphysical need to employ concrete dynamite. The artist is right to employ satire. Those who are not effective in their art do well to learn how to use real dynamite.Chinese ideal: "To make even a poor scholar's room artistically satisfying: show the large in the small, and the small in the large, provide for the real in the unreal, and for the unreal in the real." Quality in painting the Chinese call kingling: "Empty and alive, extreme vitality and economy of design."I call people who are larger than nature myth people. But because they have also a symbolic significance, I separate those who are ordinary from those whose lives are significant, symbolic. They have a grandeur. In their world I breathe freely. Enters Hélène with her many dreams, her strength and positivism, the power to act out her dramas, as Gonzalo has. She belongs with June.I mastered the mechanisms of life the better to bend it to the will of the dream. I conquered details to make the dream more possible. With hammer and nails, paint, soap, money, typewriter, cookbook, douche bags, I created a dream. That is why I renounce violence and tragedy. I have made poetry out of science, I took psychoanalysis and made a myth of it. I mastered poverty and restrictions; I lived adroitly, intelligently, critically; I sewed and mended, all for the sake of the dream. I took all the elements of modern life and used them for the dream. I subjected New York to the service of the dream. And now it is all again a question of dream versus reality. In the dream nobody dies, in die dream no one suffers, no one is sick, nobody separates.It is because of my insistence on the dream that I am alone. When I take up my opium pipe and lie down and say: politics, psychoanalysis. They never meant to me what they mean to others. Nor New York. Nor nightclubs. Nor anyone around me. Nor Montparnasse. It is my mystery. They always want me to become serious. I am passionate and fervent only for the dream, the poem.When one practices witchcraft one practices alone. One interviews the devil alone.Underneath the cult of the dream, I sense the inexorable destruction and separation in life which I rebel against. I rebel against change and evolutions. So it is the exactness I keep here, the breath and the odor, to keep everything alive! But we cannot bear to keep everything alive. That is why death was given us, and gradual death in life. Because we cannot feel so much. Parts of us must die, must die to free us, to lighten us. How well parts of Henry die in him because he possesses the gift of destruction.She has been thinking about Henry. Was he the type of man she needed? "I decided against it. He is an intellectual. I'm too selfish for that. I don't want to be sacrificed to a work."When I found him a rich patron he looked mysteriously satanic, but he never confessed what happened. He conveys that he has many secrets but he never shares them. He intimates and suggests but never confides.When I opened the door he saw me instantly. I felt instantly unveiled. His vision was even quicker than mine. A few moments later he was saying: "You are a personage out of a myth, you live in the myth. I see you as a fine, flawless mirror. A pure mirror in which others can see themselves. The mirror is important for you. The day a large mirror is delivered to you, given to you, will be a fortunate day. If a mirror breaks you will be unfortunate. You wear your bracelet on your left arm: you are dependent on your affections. But doors and walls do not exist for you. You are ultimately independent."As soon as I help her out of her illness, I see the demon reappear in her, the mocking, sensual, selfish woman in her. Her sexual hunt begins anew, but it is an appetite, an enthusiasm, and she wants only pleasure.   Each one of us has his demon. Gonzalo's demon is a revolutionary one.He is almost always ashamed. Ashamed not to have had the courage to live, or ashamed of not having had the courage to die? I cannot tell.Pepe-le-Moko, the Siamese cat, made a sound like a dove.Henry says joyously: "I will die of tranquility." Enjoying his life, living with a deep enjoyment of peace. Writing steadily. Content.And it is this descending into the real womb, luring men into it, struggling to keep men there, and struggling to free him of woman to help him create another womb, which fascinates me."No one becomes mad except from loneliness. While there is someone near you who sees what you see, hears what you hear, you do not go mad. So many artists were saved from madness by the faith of a wife, when all the world was against them.Religion as poetry. Artaud attempted to recapture symbolism and ritual, to break with realism in the theatre, but I think he had too much anger. He was insane with anger. Or is all insanity anger?What I failed to say to Edgar was: "Self-analysis is destructive. It only generates introspection. It is usually based on a false premise. It is paralyzing. Analysis of you by a professional healer is objective, dynamic. It unifies. Self-analysis dissects and disintegrates. Analysis should only be used by professionals. Self-analysis is anti-creative. It is passive."Waiting in the café, I write these words: "On being the womb." And it unleashes a tremendous feminine universe. I am completely divorced from man's world of ideas. I swim in nature. On being the womb ... englobing. My pity looks like love, and often is taken for love. All the artists, intellectuals rushing to find their blood rhythm in war and revolution. I go wherever there is life-pulse. Nothing can shatter my individual world, no collective action. No storm on earth. Communism they call it."Yes, just as there is one who is exactly like me, who thinks everything that I think, it is a girl, it is my betrothed, but I can't find her."The madman took two steps and fell forward. He was permitted to fall. And the doctor sat there with a leer on his mouth, with pride in his lucidity and logic, and he was permitted to smile, and the gods permitted the madman to say deep things, things which a poet could understand, which any poet could have deciphered for the doctor, and everything was permitted, this mockery of a man lost in his unconscious labyrinth, asking for the way, and being treated with contempt.I have learned not to believe it, not to wait. For I am the kind of dangerous dreamer who executes all his reveries, wishes, words, promises, plans. The wildest and the lightest. A wish for me is not a game: it's a creation. If I lie on my bed and dream of the pointed sea-shell necklace I might sew on my black dress, I have to get up and sew the sea-shells.Ironically, Henry is saying that he is becoming a saint, and that his life was an error. "Write this in your journal, Anaïs." Henry says he likes to be with himself now, not outside, he is collecting himself, concentrating. And I am dispersing myself, as I learned from him, to give myself, waste, live blindly. People pass into other planes, exchange qualities, change. Henry discusses analysis with Edgar, I am moving away from analysis into action.Gregory, because he analyzes, is aware, divided, but he is not paralytic. His instincts, nature, are alive. His feeling lies like an explosive. Waiting to show its face in ecstasy. At other times it is blinded, dazzled, muted by the vision.I could say to you what Henry said about me in the diary, living with eyes too open ... And I see yours closing a bit, the metamorphosis. You are already somewhere else. You reached life by divination first, I take it, as I reached it. How much like Gregory and his sincerity and his cosmic reachings. I wonder where you are now, in your metamorphosis? I'm in the night looking for silence. The head is quiet and everything else, all the other cells are breathing tentacles. Wonder why you called me the submarine superwoman. That made me laugh, yet it is accurate. Only it took me many years to recover my fins and my swimming strides. I was trying to walk (like the penguins) and to think like a man. I was very impressed with man's thinking!Henry deformed June in his novel, did I deform my father? Art is a microscope, as you examine one aspect of a human being, you cannot give the whole, the entire picture. The diary is closer to the truth, because it paints my father each day anew, with changes, paradoxes, contradictions, growth, and in these oscillations lies the truth.There is a drug in Mexico called sinicuik which helps one to remember the past. I could call my diary by that name. Taoist teaching: "To get one's due is to remain in the whirligig of time; but not to claim one's due is to fly off at a tangent to eternity."I have a growing obsession with order, I organize my closet, my papers, create an unburdened atmosphere, no useless objects, everything ready to be found, lived with. Reduction. Papers classified, medicines in order, as if ready for a trip, clothes in order. To make living smoother, faster. Order gives me serenity. It is the philosophy of the Japanese. Order around you helps you to think clearly. I need this because my body is too keyed up, like that of a race horse, and I need sedatives. I have given away everything I do not need. No waste. No accumulation of belongings. Nothing around me torn or broken. I see in Helba's and Gonzalo's life the very opposite; they are always submerged and drowned by what they have not done, trammeled by small obstacles, laundry never done, nothing to wear, everything lost, torn, dispersed.Every human being has a different way of achieving closeness, and of experiencing separation. Henry's is purely physical. It was centered on June's sexual activities, because his own relation to women is usually only sexual. His jealousy was centered on proofs. He only believed facts. Separations for Henry were caused by simple infidelities. But in Proust, Henry's opposite, separations were caused by his own intimate malady of doubt.In Proust himself there was an activity which constantly created unreality: one was hyperanalysis, the other self-doubt. So he spins the unreality from which he suffers. He dissolves life."The house in which she lives," says the mystical German writer, "is for the orderly soul, which does not live on blindly before her, but is ever, out of her passing experience building and adorning the parts of the many roomed abode for herself, only an expansion of the body; as the body, according to the philosophy of Swedenborg, is but an expansion of the soul. For such an orderly soul, as she lives onward, all sorts of delicate affinities establish themselves, between her and the doors and passageways, the lights and the shadows, of her outward abode, until she sees incorporated into it—till as last, in the entire expressiveness of what is outward, there is, for her, to speak properly, no longer any distinction between outward and inward, at all; and the light which creeps at a particular hour on a particular picture or space upon the wall, the scent of a flower in the air at a particular window becomes for her, not so much apprehended objects, as themselves powers of apprehension, and doorways to things beyond—seeds or rudiments of new faculties, by which she, dimly yet surely, apprehends a matter lying beyond her actually attained capacity of sense and spirit."Neurosis, sickness, the malady consists in remaining fixed in a trend of thoughts which is destructive, a wallowing in all the negative, frustrating aspects of one's life. For example, dwelling on what one cannot obtain, on one's defeats, on a desire for unlimited power.mood: I will say to him I happened to come here because when the bottom of the taxi fell out I found myself in front of your house. I would like life to be always as casual as that. There would never be any engagements.Don't forget to write me a letter and tell me I was here, and I saw you, and loved you, and ate with you. It is all so evanescent and I love it so much, I love it as you love the change in the days. I would prefer to move away where I could not sense the movements of life passing, somewhere in space and distance where I might divine that ultimately it is I who will abandon life and separate myself from it, not life leaving me,It struck me again, that individual suffering should be merged into universal suffering. One should adopt the world's troubles in replacement of one's own. Of course, the personal life deeply lived always expands into truths beyond itself. My struggles with myself led me to understand the struggles of others.In all his ideas, systems, philosophies, arts come from a personal source he does not wish to admit.Woman does not forget she needs the fecundator, she does not forget that everything that is born of her is planted in her. If she forgets this she is lost. What will be marvelous to contemplate will not be her solitude but this image of woman being visited at night by man and the marvelous things she will give birth to in the morning. God alone, creating, may be a beautiful spectacle. I don't know. Man's objectivity may be an imitation of this God so detached from us and human emotion. But a woman alone creating is not a beautiful spectacle. The woman was born mother, mistress, wife, sister, she was born to represent union, communion, communication, she was born to give birth to life, and not to insanity. It is man's separateness, his so-called objectivity, which has made him lose contact, and then his reason. Woman was born to be the connecting link between man and his human self. Between abstract ideas and the personal pattern which creates them. Man, to create, must become man.The Princess de San Faustino turned out to be an American woman. She came to see me because she has known much anxiety and a sense of displacement. These she recognized in the book. Anxiety. No one writes about it. Yet it is today's drama. Not events. The suffering about incidents which never take place, sufferings of the imagination. By removing concrete identifications and X-raying the state itself, anyone, even Princess San Faustino from Illinois, can recognize how she feels, in no matter what place, country, time.André Breton came to visit me. I expected he would be poetically and sensitively alert to the atmosphere of my life, to my inarticulate intuitions. He was not. He was intellectual. He talked about ideas, not impressions or sensations.Henry is baffled by what I wrote on the role of woman in creation. I said Marika Norden made herself ridiculous in her Confessions because, when she thought she was proving that she was a woman who could not find a male to match her rhythm, she was merely proving that she had no core for anyone to relate to, to match. She was looking for a mate to a center she did not have in herself. I have a center. I never lose sight of those who are on the periphery and those who are at the center of my affections and friendships. But Henry has no core. Man's impersonal world merely masks the personal.The way he focuses on sex is an obsession. He is in danger of becoming an Ego in a crowd. (The ego can only perceive a crowd, it cannot perceive an equal.) The crowd is a malleable thing, it can be dominated, dazzled, it's a public, it is faceless. This is the opposite of relationship.There are days which do not end in a climax, when the body is asleep or dreaming other dreams. There are days when the climax is not pleasure but pain, jealousy, terror, anxiety. And there are days when the climax takes place in creation, a white climax. Revolution is another climax. Sainthood another.Henry sees his women more critical, more condemnatory than they really were. He interprets women's silence as a condemnation. He projects his own guilts on women, not men. He expects to be judged by women, not men. Guilt certainly haunts all the men who seem free of it. Henry, Gonzalo, my father. They are not really free of it.Just another pattern, and for the moment, I do not find these fecund. I think patterns and arrangements are only fecund when we get lost, when we vitally need to be re-oriented, but otherwise they are like intellectual chess games, not vital, they kill experience.When a desire is blocked most people react with philosophy. But with me a desire defeated is a part of life which is killed.Everything for me divides into warm or cold. Cold people who never act from human spontaneity, but always out of an instinct for self-preservation or acquisition. Warm people who respond to others.It was at this moment that I best understood Don Juan: to be always at the beginning, at the first moment of faith and love, never to witness the gradual deterioration, the gradual weakening of the love, the aging of it, the withering of it. To be always at the first moment, the highest, and to remain there by seeking only beginnings.Rebellions of all kinds attract to their activities weaklings who rebel because they cannot master, destroy because they cannot create. I fear that Gonzalo may be part of that lamentable army, those who have always lived negatively. Is it a noble service to the poor, or the hysterical tantrums of firebugs?But I knew the origin of war, which was in each of us, and I knew that our concept of the hero was outdated, that the modern hero was the one who would master his own neurosis so that it would not become universal, who would struggle with his myths, who would know that he himself created them, who would enter the labyrinth and fight the monster. This monster who sleeps at the bottom of his own brain.